The President:
After a decade of hardship for middle class families,
and a recession that wiped away
millions of jobs,
we're in the middle of a tough
fight to rebuild this economy
and put folks back to work.
Winning this fight will not
depend on government alone.
It'll depend on the innovation
of American entrepreneurs;
on the drive of American small
business owners;
on the skills and talents of
American workers.
These are the people who will
help us grow our economy and
create jobs.
But government still has an
important responsibility.
And that's to create an
environment in which someone can
raise capital to start a new
company;
where a business can get a loan
to expand;
where ingenuity is prized and
folks are rewarded for their hard work.
That's why I fought so hard to
pass a jobs bill to cut taxes
and make more loans available
for entrepreneurs.
It eliminated the capital gains
taxes for key investments in
small businesses.
It increased the deduction to
defray the costs of starting a company.
And it's freeing up credit for
folks who need it.
In fact, in just the first two
weeks since I signed the bill,
thousands of business owners
have been able to get new loans
through the SBA.
But we need to do more.
So I've proposed additional
steps to grow the economy and
spur hiring by businesses across
America.
Now, one of the keys to job
creation is to encourage
companies to invest more in the
United States.
But for years, our tax code has
actually given billions of
dollars in tax breaks that
encourage companies to create
jobs and profits in other
countries.
I want to close these tax
loopholes.
Instead, I want to give every
business in America a tax break
so they can write off the cost
of all new equipment they buy next year.
That's going to make it easier
for folks to expand and hire new people.
I also want to make the research and experimentation tax credit permanent.
Because promoting new ideas and
technologies is how we'll create
jobs and retain our edge as the
world's engine of discovery and innovation.
And I want to provide a tax cut
for clean energy manufacturing
right here in America.
Because that's how we'll lead
the world in this growing industry.
These are commonsense ideas.
When more things are made in
America,
more families make it in
America;
more jobs are created in
more businesses thrive in
America.
But Republicans in Washington
have consistently fought to keep
these corporate loopholes open.
Over the last four years alone,
Republicans in the House voted
11 times to continue rewarding
corporations that create jobs
and profits overseas -- a policy that costs taxpayers billions of
dollars every year.
That doesn't make a lot sense.
It doesn't make sense for
American workers,
American businesses, or
America's economy.
A lot of companies that do
business internationally make an
important contribution to our
economy here at home.
That's a good thing.
But there's no reason why our tax code should actively reward
them for creating jobs overseas.
Instead, we should be using our
tax dollars to reward companies
that create jobs and businesses
within our borders.
We should give tax breaks to
American small businesses and manufacturers.
We should reward the people who
are helping us lead in the
industries of the future, like
clean energy.
That's how we'll ensure that
American innovation and
ingenuity are what drive the
next century.
That's how we'll put our people
back to work and lead the global economy.
And that's what I'll be fighting
for in the coming months.
Thanks.